# EVM

The EVM is a milestone in the history of blockchain technology, the very first smart contract execution engine. However, it is quite inefficient because every instruction operates on 256 bit values, which is unnecessary complex for most applications. This makes executing smart contracts for EVM quite inefficient compared to WebAssembly. Nevertheless it is still the most popular virtual machine standard for smart contracts.

Substrate comes with a library of modules called [Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier) that allow to create an Ethereum compatibility layer. Frontier comprises an EVM execution engine which can run EVM smart contracts, in particular, smart contracts that have been written in Solidity and compiled to EVM byte code. For every Substrate account there will be an associated Ethereum address so that users can operate with Ethereum-like addresses instead of with the native address format of Substrate. Furthermore, it provides an Ethereum compatible RPC interface so that users can utilize their familiar wallets from the Ethereum ecosystem, e.g., via Metamask

Pendulum will integrate Frontier to allow execution of smart contracts originally written for Ethereum and compatible blockchains. One the one hand this allows Pendulum and its community of developers to tap into the massive library of readily available Ethereum smart contracts and on the other hand smart contract creators can directly deploy their projects to Pendulum and utilize them for the basket of stablecoins accessible on Pendulum. This hybrid approach of the contracts pallet and Frontier combines the best of both worlds and allows smart contract creators to use their favorite programming language and to target their favorite machine.
