---
description: 'Spacewalk: A Pendulum <> Stellar bridge'
---

# Spacewalk

The [Stellar network](https://www.stellar.org/?locale=en) is an open blockchain with a focus on efficiency in speed and transaction costs, as well as integrations into the traditional financial system. It has a rich ecosystem with a focus on compliant fiat-pegged tokens and local (as well as instant, in a growing number of countries) fiat on- and offramps. Historically, Stellar has been optimized for speed and low transaction costs and not to execute sophisticated smart contracts at scale, which has largely isolated the network from the DeFi industry. Connecting Stellar with the DotSama ecosystem means that it will be possible for Stellar tokens to be exposed to more sophisticated smart contracts, while users in the DotSama ecosystem expand the basket of available fiat tokens.&#x20;

Spacewalk is the first bridge between the Stellar network and the DotSama ecosystems. Based on [XCLAIM](http://xclaim.io) and [interBTC](http://github.com/interlay/interbtc), it is implemented as a Substrate pallet and allows any Substrate-based blockchain to implement a direct Stellar bridge.

The architecture of the bridge consists of the following components:&#x20;

1. **Vaults**: this is a set of escrow accounts used to lock assets in Stellar. Their behavior is defined in XCLAIM and interBTC. In Spacewalk they have an additional property: each vault has an allowlist of assets that it can lock and support for bridging operations between Stellar and the Substrate chain. This allowlist is implemented through [trustlines](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/issuing-assets/anatomy-of-an-asset/#trustlines) of the Stellar account. There can be at most 1000 supported assets per vault due to limitations in Stellar. Stellar users initiate a deposit by sending tokens to an appropriate vault, which they request from the bridge pallet prior to the deposit. Likewise vaults will unlock and send tokens back to Stellar accounts during a withdrawal. Every vault needs to provide collateral with DOT or KSM (or related) tokens with the bridge pallet. These tokens are slashed in case the vault misbehaves.
2. **Bridge Pallet**: this is the main component of the Spacewalk bridge that implements all logic on the side of the Substrate-based chain. Its behavior is based on interBTC. It is particularly responsible for minting tokens during deposits and burning tokens during withdrawals. It is able to support any Stellar asset by employing the [Tokens](https://github.com/open-web3-stack/open-runtime-module-library/tree/master/tokens) and [Currencies](https://github.com/open-web3-stack/open-runtime-module-library/tree/master/currencies) pallets of the Substrate Open Runtime Module Library. The storage of the bridge pallet maintains the complete state that is required for the bridge to work correctly. This state contains (among others): the account ids of the vaults, the asset allow lists of each vault and book keeping information about the state of the Stellar network.&#x20;
3. **Stellar Oracle**: is a decentralized system that provides information about the state of the Stellar network to the bridge pallet. In interBTC this is implemented through a Bitcoin chain relay. However, for reasons explained above we cannot implement a chain relay for Stellar in the same way. The Stellar oracle is trustless and reliable and its functionality is based on specific unique aspects of Stellar:&#x20;
   1. The Stellar network has multiple tier levels, where the nodes in Tier 1 enjoy the highest level of trust of its peers. There are currently 23 Tier 1 nodes; this set and its structure is rather static and only changes rarely. It only ever changes through a voting process. We will incorporate complete information about the Tier 1 network in the bridge pallet.&#x20;
   2. Every Stellar node has a static signing key pair and signs messages that it gossips to the network. Particularly, every node announces through a signed message that a block has been finalized. The decentralized oracle will forward these signed messages from Tier 1 nodes to the bridge pallet. This way the bridge pallet can reliably infer what Stellar blocks are finalized.
